explain using PTFs in SUSE Manager / Uyuni (#2066)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/administration/pages/ptfs.adoc

[[ptfs]]
= Using PTFs in {productname}

SUSE provides temporary fixes for all currently supported solutions shipped directly to its customers.
These PTFs (Program Temporary Fixes) are now available as repositories, which can be synced in {productname}.

== Understanding PTF packages

> PTF packages are installed via a proxy package and are named `ptf-xxxxxx`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PTF packages are installed via a proxy package and are named `ptf-xxxxxx`, where xxxxxx is a number and part of the name of the package, not its version.

```

PTF packages need to be installed explicitly, since they are not automatically picked up when updating a system.
The SUSE Customer Support will provide the PTF number to fix a specific problem. With the number the proxy package can be identified in the PTF list.
In {productname} {webui} every system with PTFs available for installation has a page which list them.

.Procedure: Installation of PTF packages

. In the {productname} {webui}, navigate to menu:Systems[Systems List] and select the client where you want to install a PTF.
. Navigate to the menu:Systems[Software > Packages > Software Channels] and select the [systemitem]``PTF channel``.
. Click btn:[Next], and [guimenu]``Confirm Software Channel Change`` with btn:[Confirm].
. To check if the channel assignment is finished, navigate to menu:Systems[Events > History] to see the results.
. Navigate to the menu:Systems[Software > PTFs > Install] sub tab
. Select the ptf package you want to install
. Click btn:[Install PTF], and [guimenu]``Confirm Program Temporary Fixes (PTFs) Installation`` with btn:[Confirm].
. To see PTF installation results, navigate to menu:Systems[Events > History].

> In case a PTF should be installed using the API, the normal [systemitem]``system.schedulePackageInstall`` api can be used with the proxy package name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In case a PTF should be installed using the API, the normal [systemitem]``system.schedulePackageInstall`` API can be used with the proxy package name.
```

In case a PTF should be installed using the API, the normal [systemitem]``system.schedulePackageInstall`` API can be used with the proxy package name.

== After PTF installation

Once a PTF is confirmed to address the reported issue, the updated package will be tracked for inclusion
into a future maintenance update before being widely distributed as an regular maintenance update in the update repositories.

When this regular update with the fix is released, an updated version of the PTF will also be released into
the account-specific PTF repository. The updated PTF will remove the strict dependencies and allow updates to be installed again.

> The replacement of the PTF with the maintenance update which include the fix happens automatically via

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The replacement of the PTF with the maintenance update which includes the fix happens automatically via
```

== Removing the patched version of a package

In cases where a PTF needs to be uninstalled and the non-patched version of the packages need to be installed on the system,
a simple package remove cannot be used. The ptf package is not selectable in the standard package list page.

. In the {productname} {webui}, navigate to menu:Systems[Systems List] and select the client you want to remove a PTF from.

> . Navigate to the menu:Systems[Software > PTFs > List/Remove] sub tab
> . Select the ptf package you want to remove

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Navigate to the menu:Systems[Software > PTFs > List/Remove] sub tab.
. Select the ptf package you want to remove.
```

. Click btn:[Remove PTFs], and on the [guimenu]``Confirm Program Temporary Fixes (PTFs) Removal`` page click btn:[Confirm].
. To see the results, navigate to menu:Systems[Events > History].

[NOTE]
====
Removing PTFs requires a special version of libzypp/zypper to be installed on the client system.
The ``List/Remove`` tab is only visible if this condition is met.
====

In case the PTF should be removed using the API, the normal [systemitem]``system.schedulePackageRemove`` api can be used with the proxy package name.

== Removing the patched version of a package on the client

> In case a PTF should be removed directly on the client using the console, it is required to use a special
> command ``zypper removeptf ...``. All other ways result either in an error or can lead to unwanted
> behavior like removing very importand packages from the system and make the system unusable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In case a PTF should be removed directly on the client using the console, it is required to use a special command ``zypper removeptf ...``.
  All other ways result either in an error or can lead to unwanted behavior like removing important packages from the system and make the system unusable.
```

>   All other ways result either in an error or can lead to unwanted behavior like removing important packages from the system and make the system unusable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All other ways result either in an error or can lead to unwanted behavior like removing important packages from the system and make the system unusable.
```

[[ptfs]]
= Using PTFs in {productname}

> SUSE provide for their Enterprise Products temporary fixes shipped to individual customers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
SUSE provides for their Enterprise Products temporary fixes shipped to individual customers.
```

> SUSE provide for their Enterprise Products temporary fixes shipped to individual customers.
> These PTFs (Program Temporary Fixes) can now be made available as repositories which can be synced in {productname}.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
SUSE provides temporary fixes for all currently supported solutions shipped directly to its customers.
These PTFs (Program Temporary Fixes) are now available as repositories, which can be synced in {productname}.
```

Author: used that. thanks

== Understanding PTF packages

PTF packages are installed via a proxy package and are named `ptf-xxxxxx`.

> They will depend on the correct version of the package that is known to include the correction in the software. This type of package

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
They will depend on the correct version of the package that is known to include the software correction. This type of package:
```

> * cannot be installed accidentally (ie. zypper update will never suggest installing them),
> * cannot be removed accidentally (ie. a newer package version will not replace the PTF one, unless the user makes it explicitly on the zypper command line),
> * is only updated when the newer version is known to address the specific issue addressed first by the PTF,
> * updates only packages already installed on the system (a software that is split in multiple packages will have only the packages currently installed on the system being replaced).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* cannot be installed accidentally (i.e. zypper update will never suggest installing them),
* cannot be removed accidentally (i.e. a newer package version will not replace the PTF one, unless the user makes it explicitly on the zypper command line),
* is only updated when the newer version is known to address the specific issue previously solved by the PTF,
* updates only packages already installed on the system (i.e. if a software is split into multiple packages, the PTF will replace only those currently installed on the system).
```

Author: This is a 1:1 copy of the TID. I will let our doc team correct this or not

The correct ID of the package will be provided by SUSE Support during the course of the support case investigation, along with instruction on how to deploy/restart the affected services.

== Installing PTF packages

[NOTE]
====
PTF packages are currently only supported for SLE 12 and SLE 15 based systems.
Other versions or Operating Systems do not have this feature yet and the pages are not visible for them.
====

.Procedure: Enable and Synchronize PTF repositories using the command line

. On the console enter ``mgr-sync refresh``
. Enter ``mgr-sync list channel`` and look for channels starting with your SCC account name and `ptfs` in its name. E.g. `a123456-sles-15.3-ptfs-x86_64`
. Enable the PTF channel with ``mgr-sync add channel <label>``

Now this channel is available and can be added to every system which is using the same base channel.

> PTF packages needs to be installed explicit. They are not automatically installed when updating a system.
> The SUSE Customer Support will tell the ptf number to fix a specific problem.
> In {productname} {webui} every system with PTFs available for installation has a page which list them.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
PTF packages need to be installed explicitly, since they are not automatically picked up when updating a system.
The SUSE Customer Support will provide the PTF number to fix a specific problem.
In {productname} {webui} every system with PTFs available for installation has a page which list them.
```

Author: used it

.Procedure: Installation of PTF packages

> . In the {productname} {webui}, navigate to menu:Systems[Systems List] and select the client you want to install a PTF.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. In the {productname} {webui}, navigate to menu:Systems[Systems List] and select the client where you want to install a PTF.
```

Author: :+1:
